Granting privileges and using roles are two different mechanisms in database security, each serving a distinct purpose. 
Lets distinguish between granting privileges and using roles:

1. Granting Privileges:
    Definition:
        Granting privileges involves giving specific permissions to a user on a particular database object (e.g., a table, view, or sequence).
    Syntax:
        Privileges are granted using the GRANT statement.
            GRANT SELECT, INSERT ON table_name TO username;
    Flexibility:
        Grants permissions directly to individual users, allowing for fine-grained control over who has access to specific objects.
    Example:
        If you want a user to only have the SELECT and INSERT privileges on a particular table, you would grant those privileges explicitly.
    Usage:
        Suitable for scenarios where specific and granular control over access is required.

2. Using Roles:
    Definition:
        Roles are a way to group multiple privileges together. Users can be assigned roles, and the roles, in turn, have associated privileges.
    Syntax:
        Roles are created using the CREATE ROLE statement and granted using the GRANT statement. Users are assigned roles with the GRANT statement as well.
            CREATE ROLE role_name;
            GRANT SELECT, INSERT ON table_name TO role_name;
            GRANT role_name TO username;
    Flexibility:
        Provides a way to bundle and manage related privileges together, simplifying the assignment of permissions.
    Example:
        Instead of granting SELECT and INSERT directly to a user, you create a role (e.g., data_analyst) and grant the necessary privileges to that role. 
        Then, you grant the role to users who need those privileges.
    Usage:
        Ideal for situations where multiple users need the same set of privileges, promoting easier management and maintenance.

Key Considerations:
    Granularity:
        Granting privileges is more granular, allowing precise control over individual user access to specific objects.
    Ease of Management:
        Roles simplify management when the same set of privileges needs to be granted to multiple users. 
        Instead of granting privileges individually, you can assign a role to multiple users.
    Security:
        Both mechanisms contribute to security, but the principle of least privilege is typically easier to enforce with individual privilege grants.
    Dynamic Changes:
        Roles can be dynamic; changes to role privileges are automatically reflected in the users assigned to those roles. 
        Individual privilege grants require manual adjustments.

In practice, a combination of both approaches may be used. 
Individual privileges might be granted for specific requirements, while roles are employed for broader sets of permissions that are shared among multiple users.