Managing database transactions is a crucial aspect of database management. 
In Oracle SQL, Data Manipulation Language (DML) statements are used to manage data within tables
, and transactions are used to ensure the consistency and integrity of the database. 
Transactions typically consist of one or more SQL statements that are executed as a single unit of work. 
The key concepts related to managing transactions include:

1. Transaction Control Statements:
    Oracle SQL provides three main transaction control statements: COMMIT, ROLLBACK, and SAVEPOINT.
    COMMIT: Commits the current transaction, making changes permanent.
    ROLLBACK: Undoes changes made in the current transaction and ends the transaction.
    SAVEPOINT: Sets a savepoint within a transaction to which you can later roll back.

2. Auto-Commit:
    By default, Oracle SQL operates in auto-commit mode, where each individual SQL statement is treated as a separate transaction that is automatically committed.
    To disable auto-commit and initiate a transaction explicitly, you can use the BEGIN TRANSACTION statement.

3. Committing a Transaction:
    The COMMIT statement is used to permanently save changes made during the current transaction.
    It is important to commit a transaction to make changes visible to other users and applications.
    Syntax: COMMIT;

4. Rolling Back a Transaction:
    The ROLLBACK statement is used to undo changes made during the current transaction.
    It is typically used in error-handling scenarios or to undo changes made in case of an issue.
    Syntax: ROLLBACK;

5. Savepoints:
    Savepoints allow you to mark a point within a transaction to which you can later roll back.
    Useful for partial rollbacks or handling errors without rolling back the entire transaction.
    Syntax to set a savepoint: SAVEPOINT savepoint_name;
    Syntax to roll back to a savepoint: ROLLBACK TO savepoint_name;

6. Implicit Rollbacks:
    Certain operations automatically cause an implicit rollback, such as DDL (Data Definition Language) statements.
    Examples of DDL statements include CREATE, ALTER, and DROP.

Example: Managing Transactions
    BEGIN
       -- Start a transaction explicitly
       -- Perform DML operations

       -- Check for errors and commit or rollback accordingly
       IF (no_errors) THEN
          COMMIT; -- Commit changes
       ELSE
          ROLLBACK; -- Rollback changes
       END IF;
    END;

This example demonstrates the use of explicit transaction control within a PL/SQL block. 
It starts a transaction explicitly, performs data manipulation operations, checks for errors, and commits or rolls back the transaction based on the outcome.

Understanding and effectively managing transactions are essential for maintaining data integrity and consistency in a relational database. 
Always consider the business logic and requirements when deciding when to commit or rollback a transaction.