Temporary tables are tables that are used to store temporary data, and they are particularly useful in scenarios where you need to store and process intermediate results within a session. 
In SQL, temporary tables are often created in a way that allows them to exist only for the duration of a database session.
Here's a basic guide on creating and using temporary tables:

Creating a Temporary Table:
In SQL, the syntax for creating a temporary table can vary between database systems. 
However, a common approach is to use the CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE or CREATE TABLE statement with a specific modifier to indicate the temporary nature of the table. 
Here's an example using the CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE syntax:
    CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE temp_employees (
        employee_id INT,
        first_name VARCHAR(50),
        last_name VARCHAR(50));

Inserting Data into a Temporary Table:
You can insert data into a temporary table using the INSERT INTO statement, just like with regular tables:
    INSERT INTO temp_employees (employee_id, first_name, last_name)
                        VALUES (1, 'John', 'Doe'),
                               (2, 'Jane', 'Smith');

Querying and Using the Temporary Table:
Once the temporary table is created and populated, you can perform queries and operations on it as you would with any other table:
    SELECT * FROM temp_employees;

You can also use the temporary table in joins, subqueries, or other operations within the same session.

Dropping the Temporary Table:
Temporary tables are automatically dropped when the session ends, but you can explicitly drop them using the DROP TABLE statement:
    DROP TEMPORARY TABLE temp_employees;

Considerations:
    Scope: Temporary tables are usually only visible and accessible within the session in which they are created. 
    Different database systems may have variations in how they handle temporary tables, so consult the documentation for your specific database.
    Permissions: Ensure that the user or role creating the temporary table has the necessary permissions.
    Naming: Temporary tables often have a naming convention, such as a "temp_" prefix, to distinguish them from regular tables.
    Data Lifespan: The data in a temporary table is usually only available for the duration of the session, but this behavior may vary based on the database system.

Always refer to the documentation of the specific database system you are working with for precise syntax and behavior related to temporary tables.