Data type conversion, also known as type casting, is the process of converting one data type to another. 
In Oracle SQL, data type conversion can be either implicit or explicit.

Implicit Data Type Conversion:
    Implicit data type conversion, also known as automatic type conversion
    , is performed by the database engine without requiring the user to explicitly specify the conversion. 
    Oracle automatically converts data between compatible data types when needed.

    Example of implicit data type conversion:
    SELECT salary + 500
      FROM employees;

Explicit Data Type Conversion:
    Explicit data type conversion, also known as type casting, is performed by the user by explicitly specifying the target data type. 
    This is typically done using conversion functions like TO_NUMBER, TO_DATE, etc.

    Example of explicit data type conversion:
    SELECT TO_NUMBER('123') + 500
      FROM dual;

When to Use Implicit vs. Explicit Conversion:

    Implicit Conversion:
        Implicit conversion is convenient and often occurs automatically when the database engine determines that it is safe to convert between data types.
        It is suitable when the conversion is straightforward and there is no risk of data loss or unexpected results.

    Explicit Conversion:
        Explicit conversion is necessary when there is a risk of data loss or when the user wants to ensure a specific conversion behavior.
        It is useful when the user needs to convert data to a specific data type, such as converting a string to a date or a number.

Considerations:

    Performance:
        Implicit conversion might have a slight impact on performance, especially in complex queries. 
        Explicit conversion allows for more control over performance optimization.

    Data Integrity:
        Implicit conversion might lead to unexpected results or errors if the conversion is not straightforward. 
        Explicit conversion allows the user to handle potential issues more proactively.

Understanding when to use implicit or explicit conversion depends on the specific requirements of your query and the compatibility of the data types involved. 
Always be mindful of potential data loss or unexpected behavior when performing type conversions.